Introduction to Motherboard
The motherboard is defined as a circuit board for the computer system, also called logic board or mainboard. In the computer system, the biggest component is the motherboard that controls all the components of the computer system and establishes a link between all components. From the motherboard, different components like ROM, CPU, RAM, PCI slots, USB ports, and other components are connected. The controller’s device is also attached to the motherboard like DVD< hard drive, mouse, and keyboard. The computer system starts using the motherboard and these components act as the backbone for starting the system.

Components of Motherboard
In the below section, some of the important components of the motherboard are defined below:

 1. Keyboard and mouse
 There are mainly 2 types of mouse and keyboard connectors. The first connector is known as PS/2 & the second connector is known as USB.

 2. Universal Serial Bus (USB)
 The USB port is used for connecting the computer system. In the computer system, there is various type of devices that are connected with the USB port like keyboard, mouse, camera, scanner, printers, and another device. The main use of a USB port is to connect the peripheral devices and computer motherboards. The peripheral device connected to the computer system can be inserted or remove without system restarts that can be the main advantage of a USB port.

 3. Parallel port
 The old printers that are used in past use the parallel port to connect with the computer system. In the parallel port, multiple wires are used to send or receive multiple bits of the data in a single instance. On the other hand, serial ports use only one wire at a time.  In the parallel port, 25 pins female DB type connector is used.

 4. CPU chip
 The central processing unit is the processor that controls all the functions of the computer system. The overall flow of task and functions are controlled by the central processing unit. For the computer system, the central processing unit is called the brain of the computer system.

 5. RAM slots
 The RAM slots are used for connecting the RAM (memory) in the computer system. In the general computer system, there are mainly two RAM slots but sometimes there can be four-plus slots in the motherboard to increase the memory of the computer system.

 6. Floppy Controller
 The older motherboard chip contains a 34-pin type ribbon cable for connecting the computer system with a floppy drive. In this ribbon cable, one end is directly connected with the computer system and one end is connected with the motherboard.

 7. IDE controller
 The integrated drive electronics are also known as ATA or Parallel ATA. The IDE is the type of component that issued for hard drive control. In today’s computer system, the IDE controller supports is not supported.

 8. PCI slot
 The full form of PCI is a peripheral component interface. The PCI slot is mainly used to insert the expansion cards on the computer. The other PCI devices can also be connected like a sound card, network card, video, card, modems, and other device3s. In today’s computer system support for PCI expansion slots are not there.
 
 9. ISA slot
 Industry-standard architecture (ISA) is defined as standard architecture for expansion bus. The ISA slot issued for connecting input devices and modems.
 
 10. CMOS Battery
 The CMOS battery is used for storing the BIOS settings on the motherboard. The CMOS battery is also capable of storing the time and data in it.
 
 11. AGP slot
 AGP (Accelerated Graphics slot) is a type of computer slot that is used for attaching the video card to the system. This slot is a high-speed slot so that data transfer can be done at high speed.
 
 12. CPU slot
 The CPU slot is a type of port that is used to connect the central processing unit to the motherboard of the computer system.

 13. Power supply slot
 The power supply slot is used for providing the electric supply to the computer system so that it can start and perform its functions. The total power supply given to the system is around 110 ac power. In the power supply type connector, there are a total of 20-pins that are used to maintain the power supply to the computer system.